Working with SDRs
Reference: https://github.com/ddobric/neocortexapi/blob/master/source/Documentation/SdrRepresentation.md

Introduction:
One of the most interesting challenges in AI is the problem of knowledge representation. Representing everyday facts and relationships in a form that computers can work with has proven to be difficult with traditional computer science methods. The basic problem is that our knowledge of the world is not divided into discrete facts with well-defined relationships. Almost everything we know has exceptions, and the relationships between concepts are too numerous and ill-defined to map onto traditional computer data structures. Brains do not have this problem. They represent information using a method called Sparse Distributed Representations, or SDRs. SDRs and their mathematical properties are essential for biological intelligence. SDRs are the language of the brain. The flexibility and creativity of human intelligence is inseparable from this representation method. Therefore, if we want intelligent machines to be similarly flexible and creative, they need to be based on the same representation method, SDRs.
An SDR consists of thousands of bits where at any point in time a small percentage of the bits are 1’s and the rest are 0’s. The bits in an SDR correspond to neurons in the brain, a 1 being a relatively active neuron and a 0 being a relatively inactive neuron. The most important property of SDRs is that each bit has meaning. Therefore, the set of active bits in any particular representation encodes the set of semantic attributes of what is being represented. The bits are not labelled (that is to say, no one assigns meanings to the bits), but rather, the semantic meanings of bits are learned. If two SDRs have active bits in the same locations, they share the semantic attributes represented by those bits.
How to Represent SDRs:
SDRs are generated by passing an input to the encoder. Input can be anything like a number, time/date or an image. The type of encoder for each input is different. For example, if our input is a number, we use scaler encoder to encode it and represent it in form of SDRs. It is sometimes important to visualise the SDRs in different forms and make comparisons between them for a better understanding of the learning process. We are going to show you how to output SDRs as:
•	Indices
•	Bitmaps
How to output SDR as Indices:
SDR's are in the form of 0's & 1's, we have to look up for 1's every time in an SDR array. So, for simplification we just find the index number where SDR is 1. SDR as Indices is the returning of the index number where SDRs bits are 1 of a binary array. If you like to visualise SDRs as indices, you can do it by using this function NeoCortexApi.Helpers.StringifyVector to get indices of the active (1) bits from the binary array. This function receives the encoded SDR and returns the index numbers of the SDR array where it is active.
The output of the preceding function is shown below:
 

What is Bitmap and How to output SDR as Bitmap:
Bitmap is a type of file format which is used to store images.  A bitmap is a spatially mapped array of bits. You can visualise Bitmaps using the function NeoCortexUtils.DrawBitmap(). We will show you simply how it works.
 
The following is a code snippet for the functions mentioned above:

int[,] twoDimenArray1 = ArrayUtils.Make2DArray<int>(Array, (int)Math.Sqrt(Array.Length), (int)Math.Sqrt(Array.Length));
int[,] twoDimenArray = ArrayUtils.Make2DArray<int>(activeArray, colDims[0], colDims[1]);
twoDimenArray = ArrayUtils.Transpose(twoDimenArray);
NeoCortexUtils.DrawBitmap(twoDimArray1, 1024, 1024, $"{outFolder}\\Overlap_{sdrs.Count}.png", Color.PaleGreen, Color.Red, text: $"Overlap.png");

SDR Analysis: 
These SDRs we can use for analysis to find similarities between them by perfoeming following actions. 
Similarity
Overlap
Union 
Intersection

Similarity:
Shared bits between two representations indicate semantic similarity because the bits in SDRs each have semantic meaning. More shared bits means more semantic similarity. So as you can see in the diagram we have considered inputs as 50,60,70,80 which is multiple of 10 and we can easily observe the similarities between them.
 

Overlap:
Overlap generates a binary array containing the common numbers of "1's" that occur in the same position for two SDRs. It takes two input binary arrays. Comparing two representations is as simple as taking the intersection of the two indices sets. The larger the overlap, the more semantically similar the two values are. So here we have considered inputs 20 and 21 and below that we have overlapped image where these two are overlapping each other.
   

Union:
It will display the total number of "1's" in each column between two SDR images. A snippet of function is provided below. It takes two input binary arrays arr1 and arr2. The resulting array will be used in conjunction with the overlapping array to create intersection. In order to plot the intersection bitmap, the intersection function requires two input arrays. The outcome of the above function is one of the input arrays for that. You can also use it as a function to calculate the total number of active cells across numerous SDRs and plot the resulting bitmap images.
   

Intersection: 
Intersection bitmaps are really important function which can show you the overlap and union of comparing SDRs in a single image. The resulting image will differentiate between them using different colors. we have created this function by modifiying the code of DrawHeatmaps. Intersection bitmaps are really important function which can show you the overlap and union of comparing SDRs in a singal image. the resulting image will differentiate between them using different colors. we have created this function by modifiying the code of DrawHeatmaps. It is a method that we have introduced in this project to aid in the analysis of SDRs in a more meaningful way by utilizing the Intersection image.
   








